Add 2023-08-23 agenda and minutes (#563)
solid/specification: meetings/2023-08-23.md

* SC: Besides the process there were technical issues with the content of that PR. PR introduced errors and undoing something that was well-covered. There's a lack of understanding on prior discussions and work we've done to arrive at that point. It is based on existing understanding on how transitions happen, and liaison between WG and existing CG works on the same topic. Removal of the text - there's a problem there already. It should not stop anyone from resubmitting but the review will be the same. In addition to the fact that it is illegitimate to push and merge just because they have access.
* PAC: I agree that there was probably not enough time for CG to discuss, changes are debatable. However some concern has been expressed. My understanding is the current text makes it look like the WG would be subordinated to the CG which is not the intention of the text and not the way WG should work under W3C. The concern has been expressed, we can agree on a better way to address. We can tweak this so it makes it less like WG would be subordinated to CG.
* SC: Is there anything that implies that?
* PAC: My reading of the text was not that. 

> * WT: I think that if some people indeed have such a different interpretation of the text they could indeed bring it in a more constructive way than merging a PR within 20 minutes. and also the sentence was there is exactly the one proposed by W3C itself so i don't see how it'd lead to a different interpretation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* WT: I think that if some people indeed have such a different interpretation of the text they could indeed bring it in a more constructive way than merging a PR within 28 minutes. and also the sentence was there is exactly the one proposed by W3C itself so i don't see how it'd lead to a different interpretation.
```

* AC: In a charter you want to be really clear and unambiguous because there will be a lot of different people from different contexts in and out of W3C looking at it. This is not common text. If you look at any other WG this is not part of the template, not part of any WG especially those with an associated CG. There are many ways to make the text better but we need to make sure that WG/CG are independent. The way the text reads is that the WG is subservient to the CG. That is not common and outside what I'd expect of any working group which is why I supported that change.

> * WT: I did not say it was common. Just said it's part of a number of WG charters and it's a sentence proposed by W3C in their guides with the intention of providing WG with this incubation phase, and even says incubation phase could be different from a CG. I'm all for rephrasing to make clearer. I just didn't agree with the way it was done. 

Reviewer: https://www.w3.org/Guide/process/cg-transition.html
```suggestion
* WT: I did not say it was common. Just said it's part of a number of WG charters and it's a sentence proposed by W3C in their guides ([Recommendation Track Readiness guide](https://www.w3.org/Guide/standards-track/) & [CG to WG Transitioning guide](https://www.w3.org/Guide/process/cg-transition.html)) with the intention of providing WG with this incubation phase, and even says incubation phase could be different from a CG. I'm all for rephrasing to make clearer. I just didn't agree with the way it was done. 
```

* PAC: I have no problem with the existing text (previous to the PR). If some people interpreted the wrong way maybe it's worth trying to fix. I agree with SC that a lot of knowledge is taken for granted but we should make it clearer if we can. It's up to W3C members to make the final call. WG decides to ask for recharters and AC approves. I don't think it's a good idea to remove the text completely as the PR did, but we could clarify. 
* eP: I will post the link to these minutes on the PR thread and invite anyone with concerns to raise an issue. 
* SC: Is there any dispute as to why that commit was reverted? 
* OO: The process has changed a few times in the last few months. Might be worth writing down what the current one is. Barath made the first commit than we made extensive edits. CG started making edits around July. Barath did not know the process had changed.
* SC: Which ones?
* OO: As long as an editor approves it, you can merge.
* SC: That did not incorporate the CG in any way. There was no deliberation. 
* OO: Can we write down the process? 

> * SC: There's contributing guide but I will have a look. Just because there's a lack of clarity in the process does not entail that due diligence should not be followed on top of how we've been updating the charter through months of work in the open. 
> * OO: All I am saying is more clarity can't hurt because looking at history there have been a lot of merges like that in May, June.. 
> * WT: I would like to ask, we all agree clarity is good, but for now let's try to tackle another topic. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* SC: There's a contributing guide, but I will have a look. A lack of clarity in the process does not entail that due diligence should not be followed on top of how we've been updating the charter through months of work in the open. 
* OO: All I am saying is more clarity can't hurt, because looking at history, there have been a lot of merges like that in May, June...
* WT: I would like to ask, we all agree clarity is good, but for now let's try to tackle another topic. 
```

### Tracking specs changing to use RFC 911x
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/471#issuecomment-1685201553

* SC: Emphasis here is that we need to doublecheck any impact on conformance or interoperability.
* SC: Implementers and test suite devs should be aware.

> * WT: Based on a few people who raised the obsoleted HTTP specifications in our reports, I created a few PRs that make necessary changes to used the new ones. All but the Protocol are extremely straightforward. Only in the Solid Protocol there's a need for more reviews. Double check that I didn't miss anything that would affect the conformance. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* WT: Based on a few people who raised the obsoleted HTTP specifications in our reports, I created a few PRs that make necessary changes to use the new ones. All but the Protocol are extremely straightforward. Only in the Solid Protocol, there's a need for more reviews. Double check that I didn't miss anything that would affect the conformance. 
```

* eP:  https://httpwg.org/specs/rfc9110.html#rfc.section.B.3
  > The terms "payload" and "payload body" have been replaced with "content", to better align with its usage elsewhere (e.g., in field names) and to avoid confusion with frame payloads in HTTP/2 and HTTP/3. (Section 6.4)

> * WT: Good point, that's indeed one of the changes. I only checked the conformance requirements/sentences. I might have missed terminology related changes. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* WT: Good point; that's indeed one of the changes. I only checked the conformance requirements/sentences. I might have missed terminology related changes. 
```

* eP: Great that you created all these PRs, it was long overdue. 

> * SC: Wonder if it actually changes anything in conformance or breaking anything. Besides spec level updating I want to make sure we have implementors and test suites be aware of what's being changed. 
> * RG: I've raised an issue at WT's request to make sure that after that a review is done: https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/562

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* SC: Wonder if it actually changes anything in conformance or breaks anything. Besides spec level updating, I want to make sure implementers and test suites are aware of what's being changed. 
* RG: At WT's request, I've raised an issue to make sure of that after that a review is done: https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/562
```

### Interest in State Synchronization

> * MT: Braid is related to the notifications spec you're working on. The problem you have is what happens when a resource in a solid pod changes, how do you notify all the clients with real time updates? The spec you have now, there's a stream of updates and when a new one comes clients can ask for the new state. Some limitations are lack of support for collaborative editing, ??? 
> * MT: Braid is an attempt to add synchronization directly into ??? What is every URL on the web was natively capable of collaboratively edited, gives you live updates automatically. Every URL would have an offline mode so you can use without connection and will sync automatically, have peer-to-peer editing of resources. Braid would give you these features. Specification itself is broken up into different features you can use independently. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* MT: Braid is related to the notifications spec you're working on. The problem you have is what happens when a resource in a solid pod changes — how do you notify all the clients with real time updates? In the spec you have now, there's a stream of updates, and when a new one comes, clients can ask for the new state. Some limitations are a lack of support for collaborative editing, (and)??? 
* MT: Braid is an attempt to add synchronization directly into ??? What if every URL on the web was natively capable of being collaboratively edited, and giving you live updates automatically? Every URL would have an offline mode, so you can use it without a connection, and will sync automatically, with peer-to-peer editing of resources. Braid would give you these features. The specification is broken up into different features you can use independently. 
```

* eP: Is there something you could demo in another meeting? 
* MT: Yes, I'd love to.

> * SC: We have a short slot open on these calls on Wednesdays. We're trying to have dedicated meetings for demos, we had one yesterday. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* SC: We have a short slot open on these calls on Wednesdays. We're trying to have dedicated meetings for demos; we had one yesterday. 
```
